Cryptography/bls (#218)
eth-protocol-fellows/protocol-studies: docs/wiki/Cryptography/bls.md

<!-- @format -->

# Boneh-Lynn-Shacham (BLS) signature

### TLDR;

> - Proof of stake protocols use digital signatures to identify their participants and hold them accountable.

Reviewer: The term should proof-of-stake 
https://ethereum.org/en/contributing/style-guide/content-standardization/#proof-of

```suggestion
- Proof-of-stake protocols use digital signatures to identify their participants and hold them accountable.
```

Reviewer: Also, maybe I would rephrase this or add another point more specific to Eth CL. Something along 'Validators in Beacon Chain work with BLS to participate in the consensus, post attestations, initiate exit,..'

- BLS signatures can be aggregated together, making them efficient to verify at large scale.
- Signature aggregation allows the beacon chain to scale to hundreds of thousands of validators.

> - Ethereum transaction signatures on the execution (Eth1) layer remain as-is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Normal Ethereum transaction signatures on the execution layer remain using ECDSA. However, account abstracted wallets can also utilize BLS.
```

BLS is a digital signature scheme with aggregation properties. Given set of signatures (_signature_1_, ..., _signature_n_) anyone can produce an aggregated signature. Aggregation can also be done on secret keys and public keys. Furthermore, the BLS signature scheme is deterministic, non-malleable, and efficient. Its simplicity and cryptographic properties allows it to be useful in a variety of use-cases, specifically when minimal storage space or bandwidth are required. This page will cover general idea and Math behind BLS signatures, further cover BLS in context of Ethereum.

## How BLS works?

At the core of BLS signatures is the concept of bilinear mapping through pairings on elliptic curves. A key component is a pairing function $e$, defined between two groups derived from elliptic curves:

$$e: G_1 \times G_2 \rightarrow G_T$$

This function is efficiently computable and must satisfy bilinear properties:

- For all $P,Q$ in $G_1$ and $a$ in integers, bilinearity is defined as:
  $$ e(aP, Q) = e(P, Q)^a $$
  $$ e(P, aQ) = e(P, Q)^a $$

- Additionally, it must distribute over addition:

>   $$ e(P + Q, R) = e(P, R) \times e(Q, R) $$

Author: Noted, thanks for pointing it out @thogiti

  $$ e(P, Q + R) = e(P, Q) \times e(P, R) $$

These properties enable the cryptographic mechanisms necessary for functions like signature aggregation, which is a pivotal feature in blockchain applications and cryptographic consensus.

> #### Transition from ECDSA to BLS

Reviewer: Maybe better title would be a comparison to ecdsa?

Author: replaced it with something better

> Traditional ECDSA signatures, as commonly used in Bitcoin, depend heavily on the randomness of number generation and necessitate verification of all involved public keys, which can be computationally intensive. This prompted a shift towards the Schnorr signature scheme, which allows for some aggregation but still lacks the full efficiencies gained from BLS.

Reviewer: Link to ecdsa page would be good fit here or above

```suggestion
Traditional ECDSA signatures, as commonly used in Bitcoin or Ethereum transactions, depend heavily on the randomness of nonce generation and necessitate verification of all involved public keys individually, which can be computationally intensive. After its patent expired, Schnorr signatures became an alternative scheme which allows for some aggregation but still lacks the full efficiencies gained from BLS.
```

> Traditional ECDSA signatures, as commonly used in Bitcoin, depend heavily on the randomness of number generation and necessitate verification of all involved public keys, which can be computationally intensive. This prompted a shift towards the Schnorr signature scheme, which allows for some aggregation but still lacks the full efficiencies gained from BLS.

Reviewer 2: May be explaining a bit on its implications for network security and validator efficiency can really show the motivation behind the transitioning to BLS signatures. For example: 

In Ethereum PoS, validators produce "attestations" which are votes for a block that they believe should be added to the beacon chain. These attestations are frequent and numerous; hence, using BLS allows these attestations to be aggregated into a single signature. For instance, instead of having to process and verify 10,000 individual signatures from 10,000 validators, the network can process a single aggregated signature. This dramatically reduces computational overhead and storage requirements on the chain, leading to faster processing times and reduced costs.

Author: you're right, I've mentioned the advantages of using BLS but was thinking to deep dive on the use BLS in Ethereum in CL page. What do you think?

> BLS signatures, employing bilinear pairings, offer robust protection against certain cryptographic attacks and produce shorter signatures. Unlike Schnorr, BLS does not rely on random number generation for securing signatures, making it inherently more secure against randomness-related vulnerabilities.

Author: Thanks for pointing out a potential confusion, I've added a note clarifying the details on randomness and nonce

```

For ECDSA using a curve like secp256k1, there's an $R$ and an $S$ value, which produces a longer signature whose example values would look like:

```
Message: "Hello"
Private Key: 2aabe11b7f965e8b16f525127efa01833f12ccd84daf9748373b66838520cdb7
Public Key (EC Point):
    x: 39516301f4c81c21fbbc97ada61dee8d764c155449967fa6b02655a4664d1562
    y: d9aa170e4ec9da8239bd0c151bf3e23c285ebe5187cee544a3ab0f9650af1aa6
Signature:
    R: 905eceb65a8de60f092ffb6002c829454e8e16f3d83fa7dcd52f8eb21e55332b
    S: 8f22e3d95beb05517a1590b1c5af4b2eaabf8e231a799300fffa08208d8f4625
```

### Aggregation in BLS:

A major advantage of BLS is the ability to aggregate multiple signatures into a single compact signature. This is particularly useful in scenarios involving multiple transactions or signers, greatly reducing the blockchain space and computational power needed for verifications. For example if there are 100 transactions, where signature for each one is represented by $S_i$ and each are associated with a public key of $P_i$ (and a message $M_i$), rather than storing 100 separate signatures, BLS allows combining them into one:

> $$ S = S*1 + S_2 + \ldots + S*{100} $$

Reviewer 2: Not rendering correctly in GitHub. It should be:

$$S = S_1 + S_2 + \ldots + S_{100}$$

In Mathematical terms, We use 2 subgroups of BLS12-381 elliptic curve: $G_1$ defined over a base field $F_q$, and $G_2$ defined over the field extension $F_{q^2}$. The order of both the subgroups is $r$, a 77 digit prime number. The (arbitrarily chosen) generator of $G_1$ is $g_1$, and of $G_2$ is $g_2$.

1. The secret key, $sk$, is a number between $1$ and $r$ (technically the range includes $1$, but not $r$. However, very small values of $sk$ would be hopelessly insecure).
2. The public key, $pk$, is $[sk]g_1$ where the square brackets represent scalar multiplication of the elliptic curve group point. The public key is therefore a member of the $G_1$ group.
3. The message, $m$ is a sequence of bytes. During the signing process this will be mapped to some point $H(m)$ that is a member of the $G_2$ group.
4. The signature, $\sigma$, is also a member of the $G_2$ group, namely $[sk]H(m)$.

<figure class="diagram" style="margin-left:5%; width:80%">

![Diagram showing how we will depict the various components in the diagrams below.](../../images/elliptic-curves/bls-key.svg)

<figcaption>

> _The key to the keys. This is how we will depict the various components in the diagrams below. Variants of the same object are hatched differently. The secret key is mathematically a scalar; public keys are $G_1$ group members; message roots are mapped to $G_2$ group members; and signatures are $G_2$ group members._

Reviewer 2: The LaTex statements are not rendering correctly. GitHub wants to separate the markdown with LaTex statements for proper formatting. For example:

_The key to the keys. This is how we will depict the various components in the diagrams below. Variants of the same object are hatched differently. The secret key is mathematically a scalar; public keys are_ $G_1$ _group members; message roots are mapped to_ $G_2$ _group members; and signatures are_ $G_2$ _group members._

The secret key, $sk$, is a 32-byte unsigned integer. The public key, $pk$, is represented as a point on the $G_1$ curve and serialized in a compressed format as a 48-byte string within the protocol.

<a id="img_bls_setup"></a>

<figure class="diagram" style="margin-left:20%; width:50%">

![Diagram of the generation of the public key.](../../images/elliptic-curves/bls-setup.svg)

<figcaption>

_A validator randomly generates its secret key. Its public key is then derived from that._

</figcaption>
</figure>

### Signing in the Beacon Chain

In Ethereum's beacon chain, the only messages that get signed are the [hash tree roots](https://eth2book.info/capella/part2/building_blocks/merkleization/) of objects. These roots, called "signing roots," are 32-byte strings. The [`compute_signing_root()`](/wiki/CL/functions#compute_signing_root) function integrates the hash tree root with a specific "domain," enhancing the security.

> <!-- define and link context (domain separation and forks) in CL-->

Author: Nope, will be addressed in CL documentation, once it's done I can update it here as well
